PART I
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
Overview
We design, develop, manufacture, sell and lease high-performance fully electric vehicles and energy generation and storage systems, and offer
services related to our products. We generally sell our products directly to customers, and continue to grow our customer-facing infrastructure through
a global network of vehicle service centers, Mobile Service, body shops, Supercharger stations and Destination Chargers to accelerate the widespread
adoption of our products. We emphasize performance, attractive styling and the safety of our users and workforce in the design and manufacture of our
products and are continuing to develop full self-driving technology for improved safety. We also strive to lower the cost of ownership for our customers
through continuous efforts to reduce manufacturing costs and by offering financial and other services tailored to our products.
Our mission is to accelerate the world’s transition to sustainable energy. We believe that this mission, along with our engineering expertise,
vertically integrated business model and focus on user experience differentiate us from other companies.
Segment Information
We operate as two reportable segments: (i) automotive and (ii) energy generation and storage.
The automotive segment includes the design, development, manufacturing, sales and leasing of high-performance fully electric vehicles as well
as sales of automotive regulatory credits. Additionally, the automotive segment also includes services and other, which includes non-warranty aftersales vehicle services and parts, sales of used vehicles, retail merchandise, paid Supercharging and vehicle insurance revenue. The energy generation
and storage segment includes the design, manufacture, installation, sales and leasing of solar energy generation and energy storage products and
related services and sales of solar energy systems incentives.
Our Products and Services
Automotivex
We currently manufacture four different consumer vehicles – the Model 3, Y, S and X. Model 3 is a four-door mid-size sedan that we designed for
manufacturability with a base price for mass-market appeal. Model Y is a compact sport utility vehicle (“SUV”) built on the Model 3 platform with
seating for up to seven adults. Model S is a four-door full-size sedan and Model X is a mid-size SUV with seating for up to seven adults. Model S and
Model X feature the highest performance characteristics and longest ranges that we offer in a sedan and SUV, respectively.
In December 2022, we began early production and deliveries of the Tesla Semi, our first commercial electric vehicle. We have also announced
several planned electric vehicles to address additional vehicle markets, including specialized consumer electric vehicles in Cybertruck and the new
Tesla Roadster. We plan to continue leveraging developments in our proprietary Full Self-Driving (“FSD”), battery cell and other technologies.
Energy Generation and Storage
Energy Storage Products
Powerwall and Megapack are our lithium-ion battery energy storage products. Powerwall is designed to store energy at a home or small
commercial facility. Megapack is an energy storage solution for commercial, industrial, utility and energy generation customers, multiple of which may
be grouped together to form larger installations of gigawatt hours (“GWh”) or greater capacity.
We also continue to develop software capabilities for remotely controlling and dispatching our energy storage systems across a wide range of
markets and applications, including through our real-time energy control and optimization platforms.
Solar Energy Offerings
We sell retrofit solar energy systems to customers and channel partners and also make them available through power purchase agreement
(“PPA”) arrangements. We purchase most of the components for our retrofit solar energy systems from multiple sources to ensure competitive pricing
and adequate supply. We also design and manufacture certain components for our solar energy products.
We sell our Solar Roof, which combines premium glass roof tiles with energy generation, directly to customers, as well as through channel
customers. We continue to improve our installation capability and efficiency, including through collaboration with real estate developers and builders on
new homes.